Alright we're going to look at doing
an update of a recipe. But first I
started looking at the URL mapping that
we had here and decided to make a little
refactoring. If you look at line 24 I'm
changing it to be recipe /id/show.
So we're going to extract out the ID
value that way. So making this a little
more rest like just to follow a rest
like concept where we're going to have
an entity called Recipe and then we'll
access the ID value and then we'll have
some type of verb after that. So even
though we're limited to get here we're
going to go ahead and make that
refactoring and then that does drive one
HTML change here on our index page. I
did refactor 20 and 21 to include the hints
for the types and then down on line 53, I
need to change how the URL is formatted
to implant that recipe ID there for the
View link. And one thing it didn't show
in the last video, I do have unit test for the new actions that we did out have
on the controller. So you can see we do
have a little more complexity here. I
want to take an opportunity to view test
on line 66, the post method. So now we do
have another Mockito mock going on on line 70 and then on 72, we're using
the mockMvc. And this time we're going
to pass in the post method and
we're going to say a URL content type of
application form URL encoded. So
that's going to mimic a form post and
we're going to set a parameter of ID to an
empty String like we expect. And we're also going to set a description of some
String and then we are going to expect
back a URL, a status of a 300 and I think
it's a 302 if I remember right, a
redirection. And we're going to expect
back the name of a view to be redirect:/recipe/show number 2 and then 2 is
going to be coming from the mock that we
passed in on line 68 there
where we set it to a Long of two. And then
on line 17 we're setting up the Mockito
to return that back. So on line, 49 our
test at the get recipe, the URL value
does have to change and then for this exercise I've created a new get the
update view because we're going to
expect to the MVC controller to return
back a populated object. So I now have
this implemented there in 82 to 91. And
here we we have a command object. We pass
that in and then we tell the Recipe
Service to return that back. We take in
anyLong then return back the command
object. And here we're expecting when we
go to the URL recipe/1/update that
we are going to get an ok status back. The view of recipe form and the model
should have an attribute existing of
recipe. So we'll have that RecipeCommand
object there. So we're checking all that. So let's take a quick look at the
implementation on the RecipeController. So 39 to 43 there, lines 39 to 43, you can
see that I had the new RequestMapping. So recipe/id/update and here we're
extracting PathVariable out the String
of id and passing in the Model from
Spring MVC. And we are adding an
attribute recipe from the RecipeService
and I added a new method there because I
do like to keep my controllers clean, not
a lot code in them. So we're going to
allow our service method to
convert it over to a command object for
us. So let's go and take a quick look at
that. And you see we've modified the interface
to just do a findCommandById. We
take a quick look at the implementation
here. Pretty simple method here. I
did make it transactional because we are
doing a conversion outside the scope. So
if we hit any lazy loaded
properties it would go kaboom. So we are
expanding out the transactional scope to
this method and then we just
returned back a converted object so we
take in
and we're reusing that method. So find
ById, so we're going to ask it to find by ID convert it and send it back. So
let's go ahead and run this. Actually I'll
demo all the tests first.
Verify that we are all green on the
tests and these are going to take a
little bit longer. As we've run them but
we still have the context test
coming up. So you can see the Spring
context took the longest to load as we
brought that up then the rest of our tests went by pretty darn quick. So
let's go ahead and actually run the
application now. So we're up and running
on port 8080. Come on over and I have the
last one up. So with this I could take a look
at the perfect Guacamole. I'm going to
say update for a verb and we are running
into an error. So let's take a look at
that. So property uom cannot be
found. Okay I know what this is. I'm going
to pause this one second and fix it for
us. Alright I paused it and took a
closer look to see what was going on and I'll
show you what happened here. In the show
method, we were accessing a property
ingredient called uom. It's shorthand
for unit of measure and our model for
the ingredient command spelled out unit
of measure rather than the abbreviation
of unit of measure. So I thought I had
all the properties consistent but we did
not. We had a change or Delta there so
the same code did not run for
consistency. I changed the IngredientCommand. I refactored that to use uom
rather than unit of measure and that is
now working now. So I will check in those
changes along with this commit for this
module.
Just to demonstrate we are upfront and
running and I also took the opportunity.
I forgot to add in a little update link
here so I did add that to the index page
as well. So now you can see that it'll go
in and do an update and these are laid
out a little bit differently. So I can
change the cook time to 20 and you can
see now we do have the ingredients
getting loaded up and now I can come
down here and click on submit. And we can
see that the time did get updated to 20.
So just a nice little touch
there. The format is a little different
between the forms and the view. If I have
time I'll go back and refactor that to
make them a little more consistent but
that is updates. So just a recap quickly.
In the RecipeController, we added in a
new method to recipe id update and we
also refactor the show to be by recipe
id show. So we're getting closer to like
a rest type style API mapping and the
RecipeService has a new command and to
findCommandById, so we implemented that. And that simply, that
goes to the database. That's a find by ID and converts it to
the command object, returns a back to our
view layer for display on the recipe
form. And then the recipe form, we're
reusing that same exact form and here on
line 24, it does get the object and
populates the form fields with the
recipe object pass back from the
controller. And then this Thymeleaf th
action tells Thymeleaf to generate an HTML
tag to post it. To do a form post against
the URL recipe and that goes against the
same post mapping that we defined for
the save of a new recipe. So Spring
is smart enough know if it's a brand new
recipe or an existing recipe and that is
a function of having that ID value
populated or
not. So an existing one will have the ID
value populated from that hidden
parameter for ID. A new one will not have
a ID. It will be an empty String.